Yeah!
Mmm.
Mmm. Mmm. Lys, you've gotta--
You've gotta try these muffins. Huh?
Look at that bifflefly.
Just sitting there.
I've heard about them,
but never seen one before.
Yeah, it's really neat.
But you should eat.
You'll need all the energy you can get
for our class trip
to the Kublop Geyser this afternoon.
Hello.
Lys?
Try me, Lys. I'm so tasty.
Okay, okay. I will.
Mmm. You weren't joking!
Right? Nubs is gonna love these.
Um, where is he?
He never misses breakfast,
or lunch, or dinner.
Or snack time.
Let's check on him. Come on!
Bye, bifflefly!
- Nubs!
- Nubs?
You in here?
Nubs!
- Nubs!
Oh, no! Are you sick?
If you're sick, you can't go
on the trip to the Kublop Geyser.
This is the only chance to see it.
It shoots water really high into the air,
and it erupts just once a year.
We don't wanna go without you.
There's got to be something we can do.
The Yara plant.
Says here that a tea made from its leaves
can make anyone with the sniffles
feel better within minutes.
So if we find that plant
and have Nubs drink the tea,
he'll feel better
and won't miss the geyser.
Says here the Yara plant only grows
on top of one giant Tenoo tree,
and it's pretty far away.
We'd have to go fast to make it back
in time for the class trip.
It's always the three of us on missions.
We'll make a great team.
Besides,
we're going on a mission for Nubs.
Hmm.
It's quite a trip
to that giant Tenoo tree,
and it looks like a tough climb
to the top.
We have to go.
Nubs has been looking forward
to seeing the geyser forever.
It would just be the two of you.
You sure you can handle this?
Of course we can.
We've trained for
these kind of adventures.
Please!
All right.
Yes!
Also, I know it's just the two of you.
So, Lys, remember to stay focused
and present while on your mission.
And, Kai, remember,
sometimes it helps to slow down
and pay attention to your surroundings.
Yes, Master Zia.
You two are a team,
so watch out for each other
and listen to each other.
If you want,
you can take the temple speeders.
The speeders?
Good luck, younglings!
May the Force be with yo--
And you're gone.
Wow!
Landspeeders go on land and water!
This is amazing!
Remember, if we're gonna get back in time,
we gotta stay focused and move fast!
Fast, you say?
Race ya!
Flitterpods?
I didn't know they lived around here.
- Hi there, little one.
Lys! Watch out!
- Huh?
Whew. Thanks, Kai.
That was close.
I got distracted by the flitterpods.
Better stay focused on the mission.
It doesn't say which way to go
to the giant Tenoo tree.
This is the same way we've been going.
- So it's probably this way.
Wait!
Sometimes when I don't know what to do,
I stop and look around.
Stop and look around?
We need to keep moving.
Besides, all I see is water, mud, and--
Leaves! Tenoo tree leaves. Giant ones.
If we're going to a giant Tenoo tree,
and these are giant leaves...
The giant Tenoo tree must be that way.
Exactly.
Wow. I would've missed that
and gone the wrong way.
Glad I listened to you.
That's why we're a good team.
What are you waiting for?
Like you said, we need to keep moving.
Whoa.
I knew the giant Tenoo tree
was gonna be big,
but this is really, really, really big.
You really think we can climb it?
We've trained for this kind of thing.
We're a team.
If we listen to each other,
and help each other, I know we can.
You're right.
This way!
- Kai!
Whoa!
Whew.
Take it slow.
- Come on.
Ready, set, throw!
Careful, Kai.
- Got ya!
I know. Take it slow.
Come on.
Whoa! Check it out, Kai.
- Look, it's smiling.
Are we there yet?
- Kai!
Whoa! Thanks, Lys.
Anytime.
Hmm.
Aha!
- Whoo-hoo!
Almost there.
- We did it.
We made it to the top.
It's beautiful.
Whoa. Look at it.
It's like a whole other world up here.
Now we need to find Yara leaves.
The holobook said
they grow near the water.
Let's check by the lake.
All right, Yara plant,
I know you're around here somewhere.
Uh, Kai?
- What?
Paw prints.
They look like they were made by a gangul.
- A what?
- A gangul.
I've heard about them.
They're big and don't like anyone
around their homes.
We should be careful and be quiet.
I don't see any creatures around.
But I do see a Yara plant!
Kai, we have to be quiet or--
- Uh, is that a gangul?
That is a gangul.
Whoa. It's more amazing
than I thought it would be.
Yeah. [chuckles] Amazing.
Um... [chuckles] ...n-nice gangul.
- Not nice gangul!
- Look at it run. So majestic.
Lys! The Yara leaves!
You can grab them while the gangul
is busy chasing me!
There!
- Run, Lys!
Didn't know ganguls were so fast.
I love learning new things
about creatures,
just not while I'm running from them!
We're trapped!
And there's an angry gangul
guarding the Yara leaves.
We'll never get that tea to Nubs in time.
I should've listened to you
and been more careful.
And I should've stayed focused
on our mission
and grabbed the Yara leaves
when I had the chance.
Some team we are, right?
We are some team.
We may be different,
but that's why we're good together.
Kai, look how far we've come.
Sure, we may be stuck
with a big angry creature outside...
...but we make a great team
when we listen to each other.
I would've crashed my speeder if you
hadn't been there to look out for me.
And I would've gone down the wrong river
if it weren't for you.
Which gives me an idea.
Wha-- What are you doing?
I'm listening to you.
You said when you don't know what to do,
sometimes it helps
to stop and look around.
So, that's what I'm doing.
I've got an idea.
It thinks there's something
in the bushes.
Okay, Lys,
you can get the Yara leaves now.
Got 'em!
- Go, team!
Uh-oh.
Stay away from my friend.
Yeah!
We're not gonna hurt you,
but we need these leaves.
You're not gonna stop us.
- Go on. Get out of here.
- We did it!
- We did!
Let's get back to Nubs, fast.
I'm glad the tea is working
and you're feeling better, Nubs.
And I'm glad we can all watch
the Kublop Geyser together.
We missed you,
but Lys and I had quite an adventure.
We make a good team.
We sure do.
Students, pay attention.
- The geyser should be erupting...
...now.
Whoa!
- Wow.
And here's a Fizzroot Shake for Nash,
two Alphaberry Sap-Shakes for Kai and Lys,
- and the daily special for Nubs.
- Ah!
My own original recipe.
Thanks, Hap.
These are amazing!
Ah, glad you liked it.
Remember, it's always happening
at Hap's Sap Tap.
Enjoy your drinks, kids.
Oh, Nash, I've been wondering,
who's that statue of?
Huh?
Oh, that's a statue of Kaliah Kublop.
- She's the founder of Kublop Springs.
Long ago,
she traveled across the galaxy
and was the first person on Tenoo.
She welcomed travelers
from all over the sector.
Seems like Kublop Springs
has been welcoming people ever since.
Oh, dear!
Hey, that's Marlaa.
Come on, Marlaa.
I gotta hurry. I gotta hurry.
Need this?
Why, yes! That's my lunch.
Thank you.
Marlaa, meet my Jedi friends.
Oh, hey, Nash. Hey, kids.
Marlaa owns the junkyard around here.
Oh, you're all so very helpful.
I would love to stay and chat,
but I must be off.
I gotta rush back to my junkyard
before that thief strikes again.
Thief?
Oh, yes.
Someone has been stealing
the junk in my junkyard.
I haven't caught 'em yet.
Well, we can help.
That's what Jedi do.
You've already been pretty helpful.
You kids, eh, wanna help catch a thief?
Yes!
Welcome to my junkyard.
I love this place.
My moms and I buy spare starship parts
from here all the time.
Isn't this junk beautiful?
It's broken junk.
You think it's beautiful?
Of course!
Every piece of broken junk is special.
You never know how it can be reused.
They can be turned into all kinds
of amazing new things, like artwork.
See?
Whoa.
I made all of 'em out of glorious junk.
Wow. You're good, Marlaa.
Is that your home too?
It sure is.
I love living here.
That's why I'm upset
someone's stealing from me.
If they take more junk,
I won't have the right pieces
to sell to customers,
and then I may have to close up shop
and leave.
That's not gonna happen,
because we're gonna catch that thief
and get your stuff back.
Oh, bless you, darlings.
Marlaa, can you tell us anything
about this junk-stealing thief?
At first, only small junk pieces
were disappearing.
But today, I noticed the thief stole
the gears from my servo-lifter.
It helps me move heavy pieces of junk.
But now it's not working,
thanks to the thief.
We need to find out where the thief went.
Hmm.
- Hmm.
- Maybe we should look for--
A clue. Look!
Yes! A clue.
Thanks, Lys.
I bet the thief dripped oil
when they stole part of the servo-lifter.
Let's follow this trail.
Maybe we'll find out where they went.
I'd better stay here
just in case the thief comes back.
Plus, I need to move some
of this heavy junk into piles.
Except I don't have a servo-lifter.
- Whoa!
Oh, I like this one.
- You're staying with me, Mr. Fuzzy-Face.
Okay.
I guess Nubs is staying here
to help Marlaa.
- We'll be back soon.
Yes, move that over there.
- Little to the left.
- No, no. Wrong pile.
- Be careful!
Hmm, the trail stops here.
- Where do we look now?
RJ hears something.
- Over there.
It's Taborr and his pirates.
And that stuff's got to be
from Marlaa's junkyard.
Ha! Finished.
- It's glorious.
The pirates at Yarrum Tower are gonna be
so impressed when they see this.
Now that it's ready,
we can finally steal things
that are bigger and better.
I have another idea.
Let's steal things
that are bigger and better.
- But that's what I--
- We should test it out.
That's enough stealing
for one day, Taborr.
Oh, it's you.
Should've expected you pirates
would steal from Marlaa's junkyard.
- It's just junk.
What do you care?
Because every piece of that junk
is special.
It belongs to Marlaa,
and we're bringing it back to her.
I'm afraid that won't be possible.
- Right, Junk Giant?
- Junk Giant?
We built it out of junk
from that lady's junkyard.
Impressive, huh?
I'm gonna use it to steal
all kinds of heavy things,
starting with that founder's statue
everyone loves so much.
Junk Giant, don't let them follow us.
- Take cover!
What's it doing?
We're blocked in!
All right. Nice work, Junk Giant.
Now, we've got a statue to steal.
Too heavy.
- You're okay, buddy.
Lys, maybe you and I can move this
with the Force.
We're not strong enough.
There's got to be something
we can use to get out of here,
but all I see is broken junk.
- Broken junk?
That's it!
It's just like Marlaa said.
Broken things can be turned
into something new.
If Taborr built a new giant droid
out of junk,
maybe we can build something new
to move that crate.
We can start with this.
Aha!
It's lifting time.
Yes!
We did it.
Now let's stop Taborr
and get Marlaa's junk back.
What's that giant droid doing
to the statue?
Look at us,
stealing the famous Kaliah Kublop statue.
Who wouldn't be impressed by us?
All right, Taborr.
Pirate party's over. Put that statue back.
Why can't you Jedi ever stay put?
Junk Giant, get them!
There's gotta be a way to shut it down!
Kai!
I can't find a power switch!
My Junk Giant is broken!
- Uh, let's get out of here.
What about the Junk Giant?
Leave it. It's useless.
Junk Giant, stay and keep those Jedi
from following us.
- Wait! We don't have to fight.
Taborr may have been ready
to throw you away...
...but today I learned
that every piece of junk is special,
and it can become amazing things.
Like beautiful artwork, or a crane,
or a giant droid
that doesn't have to fight and steal.
You may be broken...
...but you're still special.
Absolutely!
Thanks, Nubs. [stammers] Wait.
This pile is for small junk parts.
It really should be in the starship pile.
Marlaa, we're back!
And we brought back the stolen junk.
Except the junk's a little different now.
Taborr turned your junk
into a giant droid.
- Aw. Huh.
She's...
beautiful.
If we get that arm fixed up,
would you like to stay here
and help me by lifting heavy things
around the junkyard?
I know we'd have a blast together.
That's great.
Except, what am I gonna call you?
You need a name, dear.
Hmm. You're a Junk Giant
and you're one of a kind.
How about JG-1?
- Welcome home, JG-1.
Thank you, kids. For everything.
You were right, Marlaa.
Broken junk isn't really broken at all.
It's just waiting to become something new...
and amazing.